Capstone Assessment

In order to practice and retain the concepts that were learned in Artificial Intelligence, we would make use of the Fril logic programming language. Fril would provide a better learning experience- due to its intended simplicity with the tools provided to understand and write logic from first-order predicate calculus - in contrast to familiar object-oriented languages. However, when learning the language for the first time, it took significantly longer to compute running programs. Limited resources were given, and writing in a text editor did not give us the option to check the correctness of our syntax and code formatting. Creating a personalized IDE for Fril and Prolog would reduce the complexity in learning a logic-based programming language- and allow it to gain more attention. Users can gain easier access to provided knowledge bases, code examples to run, and Fril tutorial lectures that will be provided by the instructor. Having a good grasp of language grammar allows developing further concepts of the language and advance. With the development of the application, we will learn the abilities of the tool Qt Creator, advance knowledge in front-end/web development, and manage an application in different operating systems. The main task is how to properly create an educational tool for students and programmers learning logic programming languages.

My Intro to Computer Science class has introduced me in working with Qt Creator and the C++ language. We used the g++ compiler along with the project editor to run our class projects. When we ran C++ code in classes such as Operating Systems, I would run code in Qt Creator to make use of syntax highlighting and code formatting. Knowledge from Operating Systems can help gather information on how to run the application in different operating systems as well. Software Engineering has provided direction in planning out the design for an application - and how it will fulfill user requirements. Writing project milestones, requirements, and other design documents have helped provide a basis on how to properly construct a design that will benefit the user. I worked with using the software development life cycle and building a functional front-end application with the right implementation.

In my co-ops at BMW and Kiewit and Research at Missouri - I learned a significant amount of application development. In my internship with Michael Thomas - I performed UI testing a corporate mobile/web application user interface. Using test automation, we would model the experience of the user using the features and navigating through the app. I learned how to work with and test each component and also configure a testing environment with Selenium. At my work experience at Kiewit with Lexie Murphy, I learned how to be an accelerated web developer working with AngularJs. I would evaluate the quality of design for each page before sending it into production for user feedback. I learned to be a more avid communicator with team members - informing them of defects, work completion, and pages needed to be completed. Collecting results after building a Google Home application helped me understand the perspective of the customer - and shape the requirements for the application.

I have built experiences in front-end development and looking at the requirements of the user to build a useful application. When studying the Fril Language, I internalized on how much easier it would be- if there were automatic syntax and code formatting. I was immediately interested when the opportunity was given.  I would like to create a new platform using a tool like Qt Creator- where I can build and develop - vs running smaller applications. I have always been curious about the process of developing an IDE. I would like to build things in a constructive, cohesive manner that promotes better learning experiences.

For research, we would first collect all the necessary documentation and resources provided for Fril and contact the developers for any extended information about the interpreter/compiler. Next, we would look at developing the screen of the IDE and look at the placement of the functional components. We will probably integrate web development into our help/tutorials list. We would need to look at different IDEs and look at the incorporation of text highlighting and other features. We would need to link the interpreter/compiler to the IDE. After building upon more integrated features, we would need to test how everything interacts from the code to the compiler. The result should consist of having the built-in features we believe are achievable to produce, and can successfully run with the Fril language. If we are able to achieve this task, we can also incorporate Prolog with this as well. If every member of the group is putting effective research into improving the application, spontaneously bringing up new solutions, able to generate a successful output, and complete deliverables, it would determine our success. If I can come up with effective solutions to generate an outcome that will benefit the team - I would say I put up good effort. We would be complete if students at UC are able to use the IDE to meet their various needs of working with logic programming.