# Individual Capstone Essay 
## Saylee Dharne
Our project is to create an IDE for college students to easily use and understand logic programming languages like FRIL. When I was learning FRIL while taking Artificial Intelligence, I had lots of trouble understanding the syntax and concepts of the language. Although I tried my best, it was hard to find resources to help me and the lack of an IDE made it easier to make syntax errors. By the end of the course, I appreciated FRIL and its application in developing explainable AI, but I only wish I had the resources to learn more about the concepts instead of being caught up in the nitty gritty aspects of coding in a text editor without much documentation. This project is about improving Computer Science education and empowering college students to understand concepts of logic programming and course material from Artificial Intelligence without being caught up in syntax. Programming languages are about applications and ideologies and people should not be dissuaded from those concepts because there are limited resources on the grammar. From an academic perspective, this project has a focus on learning new technologies including Qt and web development while also getting into the intricacies of understanding course material well enough to make it more accessible. It will use knowledge like understanding software requirements, using software development methodologies, compilation of languages like FRIL, working across many different operating systems, and understanding the use of logic programming in artificial intelligence. The project also provides curriculum development and UI/UX learning opportunities.

My collective college experiences will be a huge support while moving forward with this project and this project makes me think about my college experience with more appreciation that I expected. Since we are developing an application which doesn’t exist yet, this project will draw upon a lot of knowledge from software engineering courses I have taken/am taking like ***Software Engineering (EECE 3093C)*** and ***Requirements Engineering (CS 5127)***. There are many requirements we must scope out and designing a user experience which satisfies the instructor and students in the class is our top goal. We will also be drawing upon course material from when we (the developers) used FRIL in ***Artificial Intelligence (CS 4033)***. Most of the support for our project comes from Dr Ralescu and our collective desire to improve the learning experience of students in AI. Our project will also draw from knowledge in ***Programming Languages (CS 3003)*** for understanding the ideology and main concepts of logic programming languages. As a programming languages project, I designed a curriculum to teach second graders functional programming and many of those skills can be transferred to this project. It was honestly one of my favorite computer science projects because I loved using creative examples to explain concepts. I am just as excited to be using the knowledge I have learned on co-op!

Our senior design project will leverage many experiences I have had on co-op at Microsoft, GE Aviation and Kinetic Vision. At ***Microsoft***, as a ***Software Engineering Intern***, my project was mainly about driving culture change by improving the user experience for chaos engineering in my organization. I learned soft skills including the importance of having users engaged with the process of developing an application. It is a huge help in getting initial feedback and generating interest, so more people can invest in the product (before even its release!) and change how people think of system resilience. For this project, this is crucial because students will not feel engaged with the material or empowered while using our application if we don’t reduce their pain points or take their perspective into account. We are driving a culture change in education here too because we want to shift the mindset from learning and using FRIL while braving through its cumbersome syntax to actually using it as a powerful example of logic programming. At ***GE Aviation*** when I worked as a ***Digital Technology Intern***, I worked on projects about machine learning and real-time data engineering with distributed data streaming tools like Apache Kafka. I had the chance to see agile in action and learn about working in a team. I even had the chance to manage adding a feature to an application and see it through end to end. With my senior design project, I get to use this knowledge of working in a group, applied software engineering and learning things on the job. At ***Kinetic Vision*** as a ***Software Developer Co-Op***, I developed Windows applications and will be carrying over this application development knowledge for this project.

I am motivated to participate in this project because I enjoy applying my sociology knowledge to drive cultural change in making computer science concepts more accessible. I have a passion for education and I truly believe that we can create a better learning experience for students by developing this tool. I want to create a project that can make a difference and I am excited to be a part of this. We already have interest from professors and students who are using FRIL at this university and it’s exciting to have users invested in our project. I also want to learn new skills and delve deeper into concepts about education and user experience since I think this is extremely useful knowledge. This project will let me learn more about those concepts as well as new technology.

As a preliminary approach, our group plans to elicit requirements and better understand the most optimal solution to for our stakeholders (students and the professor). We want to create a user-friendly design so that we are simplifying and improving user experience for students instead of unwittingly doing the opposite. We plan to build an application which works across different operating systems based off our initial designs and user input. We expect to have a functioning IDE, instructional material, and potentially a web hosted page to download the IDE. Our project will be done when we have created an IDE which helps users learn about functional programming and code in FRIL and when we have it available for CS students to download. In my opinion, the success of a senior design project depends on whether our group applies existing knowledge and learns new things. If every member in our group has learned something new and applied knowledge from our college and co-op experiences, I think we will have done a good job 😊 Hopefully, we will make something useful for students at UC!
