# Self-Assessment- Saylee Dharne
My individual contribution to the project was the user research we conducted in Dr Ralescu's class, scoping out the features, creating the design diagrams and user diagrams for our project, creating a UI design, adding features like editor tabs, creating the expo website, and working towards our final poster design. I also wrote some initial lesson plans and analyzed some of the original FRIL code. We did apply and build upon  the skills from the Fall including design user interfaces, working on our C++ and C skills, learning Qt, creating curricula and setting up a website. I created the website for our final project by using HTML, CSS, Github pages, and based it off of designs online. I created features of the IDE using Qt and C++. I created the UI design sketch by hand and also used some software like Adobe to refine it. I conducted the surveys and research by using online forms. I learned a lot more about building applications and software engineering principles. Many of these considerations came up while working together and working on the codebase with the team and considering the architecture of our code.  

Some of our successes were creating our first release of the IDE and creating the base for any future work. Some of our obstacles have definitely been COVID-19 and adapting to quarantine. Stressors due to Covid-19 have definitely made it harder to work on the project and refine it. Online classes, being able to conduct in person meetings, disruptive home environments, all played a factor in our final project product. 

